# Welcome to the GeoSMART Jupyter Book!

**GeoS**cience **MA**chine Learning **R**esources and **T**raining (GeoSMART) framework provides an educational pathway that provides a foundation in open source scientific ecosystems and progresses through general ML theory, toolkits and deployment on Cloud computing.

Snow covers a maximum of 47 million km2 of Earth's northern hemisphere each winter and is an important component of the planet's energy balance, hydrology cycles, and ecosystems. Monitoring regional and global snow cover has increased in urgency in recent years due to warming temperatures and declines in snow cover extent. Optical satellite instruments provide large-scale observations of snow cover, but cloud cover and dense forest canopy can reduce accuracy in mapping snow cover. Remote camera networks deployed for wildlife monitoring operate below cloud cover and in forests, representing a virtually untapped source of snow cover observations to supplement satellite observations. Using images from 1181 wildlife cameras deployed by the Norwegian Institute for Nature Research (NINA), we derived a threshold to create daily binary maps of snow cover from the MOD10A1 product. The threshold corresponding to snow presence was an NDSI value of 40.50, which closely matched a previously defined global binary threshold of 40 using the MOD10A2 8-day product. This model demonstrates the utility of camera trap networks for validation of snow cover products from satellite remote sensing.

